README.md, before:

# Deepgram .NET SDK

[![Nuget](https://img.shields.io/nuget/v/deepgram)](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Deepgram) [![Build Status](https://github.com/deepgram-devs/deepgram-dotnet-sdk/workflows/CI/badge.svg)](https://github.com/deepgram-devs/deepgram-dotnet-sdk/actions?query=CI) [![Contributor Covenant](https://img.shields.io/badge/Contributor%20Covenant-v2.0%20adopted-ff69b4.svg)](./.github/CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md)

Official .NET SDK for [Deepgram](https://www.deepgram.com/)'s automated
speech recognition APIs.

To access the API you will need a Deepgram account. Sign up for free at
[signup](https://console.deepgram.com/signup?utm_medium=github&utm_source=devrel&utm_content=dotnet-sdk).

## Documentation

Full documentation of the .NET SDK can be found on the
[Deepgram Developer Portal](https://developers.deepgram.com/sdks-tools/sdks/dotnet-sdk/).

You can learn more about the full Deepgram API at [https://developers.deepgram.com](https://developers.deepgram.com).

## Installation

To install the C# client library using NuGet:

Run the following command from your terminal in your projects directory:

```bash
dotnet add package Deepgram
```

## Targeted Frameworks

- 6.0.0
- 5.0.0
- .NET Core 3.1
- .NET Standard 2.0

## Configuration

To setup the configuration of the Deepgram Client you can do one of the following:

- Create a Deepgram Client instance and pass in credentials in the constructor.

```csharp
var credentials = new Credentials(YOUR_DEEPGRAM_API_KEY);
var deepgramClient = new DeepgramClient(credentials);
```

Or

- Provide the Deepgram API key and optional API Url in `appsettings.json`:

```json
{
  "appSettings": {
    "Deepgram.Api.Key": "YOUR_DEEPGRAM_API_KEY",
    "Deepgram.Api.Uri": "api.deepgram.com"
  }
}
```

> Note: In the event multiple configuration files are found, the order of precedence is as follows:

```
* ```appsettings.json``` which overrides
* ```settings.json```
```

Or

- Access the Configuration instance and set the appropriate key in your code for example:

```csharp
Configuration.Instance.Settings["appSettings:Deepgram.Api.Key"] = "YOUR_DEEPGRAM_API_KEY";
Configuration.Instance.Settings["appSettings:Deepgram.Api.Uri"] = "api.deepgram.com";
```

## Examples

### Sending a Remote File for Transcription

```csharp
var credentials = new Credentials(DEEPGRAM_API_KEY);

var deepgramClient = new DeepgramClient(credentials);

var response = await deepgramClient.Transcription.Prerecorded.GetTranscriptionAsync(
    new Deepgram.Transcription.UrlSource("https://static.deepgram.com/examples/Bueller-Life-moves-pretty-fast.wav"),
    new Deepgram.Transcription.PrerecordedTranscriptionOptions()
    {
        Punctuate = true
    });
```

### Sending a Local File for Transcription

```csharp
var credentials = new Credentials(DEEPGRAM_API_KEY);

var deepgramClient = new DeepgramClient(credentials);

using (FileStream fs = File.OpenRead("path\\to\\file"))
{
    var response = await deepgramClient.Transcription.Prerecorded.GetTranscriptionAsync(
        new Deepgram.Transcription.StreamSource(
            fs,
            "audio/wav"),
        new Deepgram.Transcription.PrerecordedTranscriptionOptions()
        {
            Punctuate = true
        });
}
```

### Real-time Transcription

> The example below demonstrates sending a pre-recorded audio to simulate a real-time
stream of audio. In a real application, this type of audio is better handled using the
pre-recorded transcription.

```csharp
var credentials = new Credentials(DEEPGRAM_API_KEY);

var deepgramClient = new DeepgramClient(credentials);

using (var deepgramLive = deepgramClient.CreateLiveTranscriptionClient())
{
    deepgramLive.ConnectionOpened += HandleConnectionOpened;
    deepgramLive.ConnectionClosed += HandleConnectionClosed;
    deepgramLive.ConnectionError += HandleConnectionError;
    deepgramLive.TranscriptReceived += HandleTranscriptReceived;

    // Connection opened so start sending audio.
    async void HandleConnectionOpened(object? sender, ConnectionOpenEventArgs e)
    {
        byte[] buffer;

        using (FileStream fs = File.OpenRead("path\\to\\file"))
        {
            buffer = new byte[fs.Length];
            fs.Read(buffer, 0, (int)fs.Length);
        }

        var chunks = buffer.Chunk(1000);

        foreach (var chunk in chunks)
        {
            deepgramLive.SendData(chunk);
            await Task.Delay(50);
        }

        await deepgramLive.FinishAsync();
    }

    void HandleTranscriptReceived(object? sender, TranscriptReceivedEventArgs e)
    {
        if (e.Transcript.IsFinal && e.Transcript.Channel.Alternatives.First().Transcript.Length > 0) { 
            var transcript = e.Transcript;
            Console.WriteLine($"[Speaker: {transcript.Channel.Alternatives.First().Words.First().Speaker}] {transcript.Channel.Alternatives.First().Transcript}");
        }
    }

    void HandleConnectionClosed(object? sender, ConnectionClosedEventArgs e)
    {
        Console.Write("Connection Closed");
    }

    void HandleConnectionError(object? sender, ConnectionErrorEventArgs e)
    {
        Console.WriteLine(e.Exception.Message);
    }

    var options = new LiveTranscriptionOptions() { Punctuate = true, Diarize = true, Encoding = Deepgram.Common.AudioEncoding.Linear16 };
    await deepgramLive.StartConnectionAsync(options);

    while (deepgramLive.State() == WebSocketState.Open) { }
}
```

## Logging

The Library uses Microsoft.Extensions.Logging to preform all of it's logging tasks. To configure
logging for your app simply create a new ILoggerFactory and call the LogProvider.SetLogFactory()
method to tell the Deepgram library how to log. For example, to log to the console with Serilog, you'd need to install the Serilog package with `dotnet add package Serilog` and then do the following:

```csharp
using Microsoft.Extensions.Logging;
using Microsoft.Extensions.Configuration;
using Deepgram.Logger;
using Serilog;

var log = new LoggerConfiguration()
    .MinimumLevel.Debug()
    .WriteTo.Console(outputTemplate: "{Timestamp:HH:mm} [{Level}]: {Message}\n")
    .CreateLogger();
var factory = new LoggerFactory();
factory.AddSerilog(log);
LogProvider.SetLogFactory(factory);
```

## Development and Contributing

Interested in contributing? We ❤️ pull requests!

To make sure our community is safe for all, be sure to review and agree to our
[Code of Conduct](./.github/CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md). Then see the
[Contribution](./.github/CONTRIBUTING.md) guidelines for more information.

## Getting Help

We love to hear from you so if you have questions, comments or find a bug in the
project, let us know! You can either:

- [Open an issue](https://github.com/deepgram-devs/deepgram-dotnet-sdk/issues/new) on this repository
- Tweet at us! We're [@DeepgramAI on Twitter](https://twitter.com/DeepgramAI)

## Further Reading

Check out the Developer Documentation at [https://developers.deepgram.com/](https://developers.deepgram.com/)

[signup]: https://console.deepgram.com?utm_source=dotnet-sdk&utm_content=readme

Commit message:

Deepgram SDK v2.3.0 (#109)
* updates to readme

* adds summarize v2

* adds NullValueHandling to ignore response null values

* example program.cs updated for remote and local file

* add Newtonsoft.json

* adds warning object

* adds warning

* formatting

* feat: filler_words for SDK v2

* fix: remove user agent from live client for SDK v2

---------

Co-authored-by: Brian Barrow <briancbarrow@gmail.com>
Co-authored-by: John Vajda <john.vajda@deepgram.com>
Co-authored-by: Sandra Rodgers <sandra.rodgers@deepgram.com>
Co-authored-by: Sandra Rodgers <45321563+SandraRodgers@users.noreply.github.com>

README.md, after:

# Deepgram .NET SDK

[![Nuget](https://img.shields.io/nuget/v/deepgram)](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Deepgram) [![Build Status](https://github.com/deepgram-devs/deepgram-dotnet-sdk/workflows/CI/badge.svg)](https://github.com/deepgram-devs/deepgram-dotnet-sdk/actions?query=CI) [![Contributor Covenant](https://img.shields.io/badge/Contributor%20Covenant-v2.0%20adopted-ff69b4.svg)](./.github/CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md)

Official .NET SDK for [Deepgram](https://www.deepgram.com/). Start building with our powerful transcription & speech understanding API.

> This SDK only supports hosted usage of api.deepgram.com.

## Getting an API Key

🔑 To access the Deepgram API you will need a [free Deepgram API Key](https://console.deepgram.com/signup?jump=keys).

## Documentation

Complete documentation of the .NET SDK can be found on the
[Deepgram Docs](https://developers.deepgram.com/docs/dotnet-sdk).

You can learn more about the full Deepgram API at [https://developers.deepgram.com](https://developers.deepgram.com).

## Installation

To install the C# client library using NuGet:

Run the following command from your terminal in your projects directory:

```bash
dotnet add package Deepgram
```

## Targeted Frameworks

- 6.0.0
- 5.0.0
- .NET Core 3.1
- .NET Standard 2.0

## Configuration

To setup the configuration of the Deepgram Client you can do one of the following:

- Create a Deepgram Client instance and pass in credentials in the constructor.

```csharp
var credentials = new Credentials(YOUR_DEEPGRAM_API_KEY);
var deepgramClient = new DeepgramClient(credentials);
```

Or

- Provide the Deepgram API key and optional API Url in `appsettings.json`:

```json
{
  "appSettings": {
    "Deepgram.Api.Key": "YOUR_DEEPGRAM_API_KEY",
    "Deepgram.Api.Uri": "api.deepgram.com"
  }
}
```

> Note: In the event multiple configuration files are found, the order of precedence is as follows:

```
* ```appsettings.json``` which overrides
* ```settings.json```
```

Or

- Access the Configuration instance and set the appropriate key in your code for example:

```csharp
Configuration.Instance.Settings["appSettings:Deepgram.Api.Key"] = "YOUR_DEEPGRAM_API_KEY";
Configuration.Instance.Settings["appSettings:Deepgram.Api.Uri"] = "api.deepgram.com";
```

## Examples

### Sending a Remote File for Transcription

```csharp
var credentials = new Credentials(DEEPGRAM_API_KEY);

var deepgramClient = new DeepgramClient(credentials);

var response = await deepgramClient.Transcription.Prerecorded.GetTranscriptionAsync(
    new Deepgram.Transcription.UrlSource("https://static.deepgram.com/examples/Bueller-Life-moves-pretty-fast.wav"),
    new Deepgram.Transcription.PrerecordedTranscriptionOptions()
    {
        Punctuate = true
    });
```

### Sending a Local File for Transcription

```csharp
var credentials = new Credentials(DEEPGRAM_API_KEY);

var deepgramClient = new DeepgramClient(credentials);

using (FileStream fs = File.OpenRead("path\\to\\file"))
{
    var response = await deepgramClient.Transcription.Prerecorded.GetTranscriptionAsync(
        new Deepgram.Transcription.StreamSource(
            fs,
            "audio/wav"),
        new Deepgram.Transcription.PrerecordedTranscriptionOptions()
        {
            Punctuate = true
        });
}
```

### Real-time Transcription

> The example below demonstrates sending a pre-recorded audio to simulate a real-time
stream of audio. In a real application, this type of audio is better handled using the
pre-recorded transcription.

```csharp
var credentials = new Credentials(DEEPGRAM_API_KEY);

var deepgramClient = new DeepgramClient(credentials);

using (var deepgramLive = deepgramClient.CreateLiveTranscriptionClient())
{
    deepgramLive.ConnectionOpened += HandleConnectionOpened;
    deepgramLive.ConnectionClosed += HandleConnectionClosed;
    deepgramLive.ConnectionError += HandleConnectionError;
    deepgramLive.TranscriptReceived += HandleTranscriptReceived;

    // Connection opened so start sending audio.
    async void HandleConnectionOpened(object? sender, ConnectionOpenEventArgs e)
    {
        byte[] buffer;

        using (FileStream fs = File.OpenRead("path\\to\\file"))
        {
            buffer = new byte[fs.Length];
            fs.Read(buffer, 0, (int)fs.Length);
        }

        var chunks = buffer.Chunk(1000);

        foreach (var chunk in chunks)
        {
            deepgramLive.SendData(chunk);
            await Task.Delay(50);
        }

        await deepgramLive.FinishAsync();
    }

    void HandleTranscriptReceived(object? sender, TranscriptReceivedEventArgs e)
    {
        if (e.Transcript.IsFinal && e.Transcript.Channel.Alternatives.First().Transcript.Length > 0) {
            var transcript = e.Transcript;
            Console.WriteLine($"[Speaker: {transcript.Channel.Alternatives.First().Words.First().Speaker}] {transcript.Channel.Alternatives.First().Transcript}");
        }
    }

    void HandleConnectionClosed(object? sender, ConnectionClosedEventArgs e)
    {
        Console.Write("Connection Closed");
    }

    void HandleConnectionError(object? sender, ConnectionErrorEventArgs e)
    {
        Console.WriteLine(e.Exception.Message);
    }

    var options = new LiveTranscriptionOptions() { Punctuate = true, Diarize = true, Encoding = Deepgram.Common.AudioEncoding.Linear16 };
    await deepgramLive.StartConnectionAsync(options);

    while (deepgramLive.State() == WebSocketState.Open) { }
}
```

## Logging

The Library uses Microsoft.Extensions.Logging to preform all of it's logging tasks. To configure
logging for your app simply create a new ILoggerFactory and call the LogProvider.SetLogFactory()
method to tell the Deepgram library how to log. For example, to log to the console with Serilog, you'd need to install the Serilog package with `dotnet add package Serilog` and then do the following:

```csharp
using Microsoft.Extensions.Logging;
using Microsoft.Extensions.Configuration;
using Deepgram.Logger;
using Serilog;

var log = new LoggerConfiguration()
    .MinimumLevel.Debug()
    .WriteTo.Console(outputTemplate: "{Timestamp:HH:mm} [{Level}]: {Message}\n")
    .CreateLogger();
var factory = new LoggerFactory();
factory.AddSerilog(log);
LogProvider.SetLogFactory(factory);
```

## Development and Contributing

Interested in contributing? We ❤️ pull requests!

To make sure our community is safe for all, be sure to review and agree to our
[Code of Conduct](./.github/CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md). Then see the
[Contribution](./.github/CONTRIBUTING.md) guidelines for more information.

## Getting Help

We love to hear from you so if you have questions, comments or find a bug in the
project, let us know! You can either:

- [Open an issue in this repository](https://github.com/deepgram-devs/deepgram-dotnet-sdk/issues/new)
- [Join the Deepgram Github Discussions Community](https://github.com/orgs/deepgram/discussions)
- [Join the Deepgram Discord Community](https://discord.gg/xWRaCDBtW4)


[license]: LICENSE.txt
